# How-can-a-Wellness-Technology-Company-play-it-smart

As part of Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate, a case study was analysed and inferences were made with summaries and visualizations. Case Study: How-can-a-Wellness-Technology-Company-play-it-smart

This exploratory analysis case study is done for Capstone project requirement for the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate. The case study involves a personal fitness tracker data from thirty users which inturn contains the user's data such as heart rate, sleep monitoring, steps taken,etc. The data has been made available by Mobius.

The analysis will follow the 6 phases of the Data Analysis process: Ask, Prepare, Process, Analyze, Share and Act.

# Background

Bellabeat is a high-tech company that manufactures heatlth-focused smart products. Collecting data on activity, sleep, stress, and reproductive health has allowed Bellabeat to empower women with
knowledge about their own health and habits. Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly
positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for women.

The co-founder and Chief Creative Officer, Urška Sršen is confident that an analysis of non-Bellebeat consumer data (ie. FitBit fitness tracker usage data) would reveal more opportunities for growth.

In this case study, I am a junior data analyst working on the marking team of Bellabeat,a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. The CEO of the company believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. So as a data analyst I have been asked to focus on one of the Bellabeat's product and analyze smart device data to gain insights into how consumers are using their smart devices. So with the help of insights derived, it would help guide marketing strategy for the company.

# Stakeholders
* The bellabeat marketing analytics and executives team
* Co-founder and chief creative officer of Bellabeat.

# Objective
1. To investigate and identify some trends in smart device usage to gain insight into how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices.
2. To identify how to use the trends discovered and apply to Bellabeat customers.

# Bellabeat Products

1. Bellabeat app: The Bellabeat app provides users with health data related to their activity, sleep, stress, menstrual cycle, and mindfulness habits. This data can help users better understand their current habits and make healthy decisions. The Bellabeat app connects to their line of smart wellness products.

2. Leaf: Bellabeat’s classic wellness tracker can be worn as a bracelet, necklace, or clip. The Leaf tracker connects to the Bellabeat app to track activity, sleep, and stress.

3. Time: This wellness watch combines the timeless look of a classic timepiece with smart technology to track user activity, sleep, and stress. The Time watch connects to the Bellabeat app to provide you with insights into your daily wellness.

4. Spring: This is a water bottle that tracks daily water intake using smart technology to ensure that you are appropriately hydrated throughout the day. The Spring bottle connects to the Bellabeat app to track your hydration levels.

5. Bellabeat membership: Bellabeat also offers a subscription-based membership program for users. Membership gives users 24/7 access to fully personalized guidance on nutrition, activity, sleep, health and beauty, and mindfulness based on their lifestyle and goals.

# Deliverables

* A clear summary of the business task
* A description of all data sources used
* Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
* A summary of analysis
* Supporting visualizations and key findings
* High-level content recommendations based on the analysis

# Dataset Used

1. FitBit Fitness Tracker Data (CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through Mobius). Dataset is publicly available from Kaggle and stored in 18 csv files.
2. This dataset is generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016
3. Data collected includes physical activity recorded in minutes, heart rate, sleep monitoring, daily activity and steps.

Statistical analysis were made on the refined data and visualisations were also created for better understanding.


